do you ever feel like you just don't
belong to a room like everyone else is
so much smarter than you
like you have nothing to contribute that
is worth listening to
kind of like you cheat your way in there
because people seem to think that you
are smarter than you actually are
i get that feeling a lot hello imposter
syndrome
the internet's most trustworthy source
wikipedia defines imposter syndrome as a
psychological pattern of doubting your
skills talents and accomplishments due
to an internalized fear of being exposed
as a fraud and it doesn't matter if
there's actual evidence of
accomplishments because people with
imposter syndrome will attribute their
success to luck or
to having deceived others into thinking
they are smarter than they perceive
themselves to be
you can imagine imposter syndrome a bit
like a bully in your head that keeps
telling you that you're not good enough
i've always had imposter syndrome but
going to cambridge definitely made it
more extreme
not due to anything that anyone else
said or did but rather because of the
pressure i had built up in my own
thoughts
cambridge's reputation stands for
academic excellence and i felt like i
was incapable of living up to the
university's high standards any mark
that isn't perfect is evidence of my
imposterism in the eyes of my imposter
syndrome but when you constantly tell
yourself that you're not good enough
you end up pretty miserable and
eventually start believing it yourself
the thing about imposter syndrome is
that actual evidence does not matter to
the voice in your head
you get a perfect mark luck you fail
evidence of your incompetence the
impossible syndrome in me always finds a
way to interpret the evidence in such a
way that the cards are stacked against
me
i've let my impostor syndrome govern my
thoughts for a long time
and it ended in me constantly feeling
like a failure
regardless of my achievements anything i
got scholarships good grades etc
was just something else i got even
though i didn't deserve it
and i wasn't confident in anything i did
i start my questions and supervisions
with i know this is probably a damn
question
and usually spoke at about 50 the volume
of other students in the class
a professor called me out on it she said
that she wasn't going to count my
contributions to class
unless i give my answers confidently
loudly and don't make my sentences sound
like questions
she followed that up with you know the
answers so say them like you know them
and not like you're guessing them so i
gave myself some fake confidence in
order to get participation points for
her class
and to my surprise i usually gave the
right answers
after a while that fake confidence
became more and more real
i started speaking up in other classes
and no longer started my questions with
i know this might be a dumb question so
what about my imposter syndrome during
this time
our relationship had changed the thing
that changed is that i now talk back
it's become a bit like a bet between me
and my imposter syndrome when my mind
tells me that i'm not good enough that
i'll never pass
never get that scholarship never
graduate etc i tell myself that i'll
prove that statement wrong
and then i work towards that my imposter
syndrome still tries to tell me that my
grades and
anything else is merely luck but you are
only so likely to get lucky
when i got a perfect mark on my first
exam at my exchange university
i shared it on my socials and lots of
people told me how that mark is super
rare in german law schools my imposter
syndrome immediately sprang into action
well you see this must have been a
mistake it's probably a typo
there's no way you got that mark but
when i got the same mark in my second
exam
i was like well what's the statistical
likelihood
of that mistake happening twice my
imposter syndrome still tries to turn
the tables and to be honest
there are days where i believe in my
rational arguments and there are other
days where my imposter syndrome is on a
winning streak
but most of the time i'm on a mission to
prove my imposter syndrome wrong
that mean voice in your head can easily
attribute one good mark to luck
but if you keep working hard and keep
achieving stuff
you're making it less and less likely
that it is all just due to luck
in a weird way my imposter syndrome has
become my motivation to work harder
because i want to prove it wrong
[Music]
you